The Media Online’s weekly column delivering news of award wins, entries, competitions, dates to note and winners in the media. PRISM Awards celebrates unprecedented participation in 2023, highlighting the power of Storytelling & PR The PRISM Awards has announced that an unprecedented number of entries – 454 in total, with 380 meeting the stringent qualifying criteria – have been received this year. While there has been a steady ramping up of participation over the past five years, the volume and quality of entries this year have far shattered even our most optimistic expectations – exceeding all previous records in the history of the awards. “The overwhelming response to this year’s call for entries is a testament to the enduring vibrancy and resilience of our industry. In a world increasingly driven by narratives, the art of storytelling continues to command immense power and influence,” said Landiwe Manana, Public Relations Institute of Southern Africa (PRISA) general manager and PRISM Awards chairperson. Manana said the enthusiasm around the awards reaffirms the vibrant growth in our industry and the society-wide acknowledgement of the crucial role played by strategic communications professionals in the rapidly digitising landscape of today. Sharing these sentiments of excitement, Bradly Howland, CEO of Alkemi Collective (formerly HWB Communications) and member of the PRISM Awards organising committee says that the campaigns submitted are a reflection of the continuing evolution of our industry, demonstrating an adeptness at weaving narratives that are not just engaging but also strategically aligned with the ever-changing global communications landscape. As a member of PRISA and the Public Relations Consultants’ Chapter of PRISA (PRCC), Howland adds that the awards present a unique opportunity to recognise and celebrate this dynamism, shining a spotlight on practitioners and agencies who are pushing the boundaries and setting new standards of excellence in our field. “The PRISM Awards is a catalyst, not just for celebrating achievements, but also for inspiring individuals and organisations to strive for greater heights.” The award ceremony will take place on 28 July 2023 in Johannesburg. South Africa wins big at the International Loyalty Awards South Africa’s loyalty sector have triumphed at the International Loyalty Awards in London, with Truth CEO, Amanda Cromhout, winning the only individual award, and eBucks and DStv receiving global acclaim in four categories. The International Loyalty Awards are considered the pinnacle of recognition for consumer loyalty programmes and pay tribute to the brands building lasting, profitable customer relationships. The 2023 Awards Ceremony saw 111 finalists competing across 18 categories, with South African loyalty programmes up against international brands such as Adidas, Mastercard and Exxon Mobil. FNB’s eBucks received three accolades for The Best Use of Technology, The Best Long-Term Loyalty Initiative and Best Loyalty Programme in the Africa & Middle East region. eBucks was the only loyalty brand to receive three awards at this year’s event. DStv and Ogilvy South Africa were recognised for the Best Short-Term Loyalty Initiative for a campaign that gave Big Brother fans control using DStv Rewards. Cromhout, the CEO of Truth, a Cape Town-based loyalty consultancy and South Africa’s foremost expert on loyalty was recognised as the International Loyalty Personality of the Year. This is the only Award to recognise a person’s contribution to the industry. All the other awards are for loyalty programmes. 0307 Films Cape Town shortlisted at Gerety Awards 2023 New category announced in 2023 Galliova Food and Health Writers’ Awards The Galliova Food and Health Writers’ Awards returns this year with an exciting new category: the Galliova Egg Hero, which is open to food and health writers and social media influencers with content aimed at budget-conscious South Africans with limited disposable income. This new award category demonstrates once again how the Galliova Awards – now in its 34th year – is constantly evolving to reflect the local media’s response to the changing needs of South African consumers. The South African Poultry Association (SAPA) says the Galliova Egg Hero category is aligned with the very qualities that make eggs such a popular food among South Africans. “Eggs are one of the most affordable proteins compared to other protein sources. They are accessible for cash-strapped South Africans, and can be eaten for every meal, not just breakfast. This versatility allows food and health writers to easily make eggs the hero of their budget-friendly recipes for breakfast, lunch, supper, snacks and even school lunchboxes,” says SAPA. The new award category also provides social media influencers with a second opportunity to submit their work to the Galliova judges, as it’s open to both print and online media. Secure your spot at the Effie Awards 2023 Gala Tickets for the 2023 Effie Awards, taking place on September15th are now available for purchase. The  Association for Communication and Advertising (ACA) and Effie South Africa encourage early booking in order to avoid disappointment as tickets are limited. The Effie Awards South Africa, hosted by the ACA and sponsored by Nedbank, Investec and GIB, recognise marketing communication that is not only creative but, most importantly, effective. The awards are now in proud partnership with the Nedbank IMC Conference, Africa’s foremost integrated marketing conference. Attendees will gain valuable insights at the Nedbank IMC and witness how these insights are applied to achieve remarkable results at the Effie Awards Gala. Combination tickets, granting access to both events on the September 15th, are available at a reduced cost. After the conference concludes at 16h00, attendees are invited to network over cocktails before the Gala event begins at 19h00. World Out of Home Organization announces individual, creative and technical innovation awards at Lisbon Global Congress. The World Out of Home Organization has announced the individual; winners and creative awards for both Digital and Classic plus Technical innovation at its Global Congress in Lisbon, held on June 7-9. Technical innovation is chosen from a shortlist of three by Congress delegates. WOO has also announced the inaugural winner of its new Sustainability Award, reflecting the organisation’s redoubling of its drive towards Net Zero with, among other initiatives, a new Sustainability Task Force drawn from WOO members. The individual winners are: Lifetime Achievement: Kinetic Global Chief Operating Officer Nick Parker.
Leadership: Andreas Soupliotis – Founder, President and CEO of Hivestack
Rising Star: Alex Tutu Muiruri – Regional Managing Director sub-Saharan Africa, Dentsu. Highly Commended in this category were: Georgia Hamp – Client Manager Grand Visual
Mehul Mandalia – Co-founder & Head of Product, Moving Walls Creative Awards Classic HSBC Safe Space Activation Wunderman Thompson/PHD Media/Talon/blowUP media Digital McDonald’s Japan – ‘Take a Chance with McDonald’s’ Dentsu/LIVE BOARD/Hivestack Technical Innovation DOOH.COM, EssenceMediaCom Scotland, Above & Beyond, Kinetic. The first ever interactive, shoppable 3D billboard Highly Commended Ocean Outdoor DeepScreen/Ocean Labs Global Media Kit – Omni-channel Media Planning, Selling and Buying Automation Sustainability blowUP media Germany/Vertical Gardens Highly Commended – GPO VALLAS/Ecovallas Standard Bank Sikuvile Journalism Awards 2023 shortlist announced The shortlist for this year’s edition of the Standard Bank Sikuvile Journalism Awards, brought to you by South African National Editors’ Forum (SANEF), has been announced. The winners will be announced at an event on Saturday, 24 June at The Venue, Melrose Arch, Gauteng. All category winners receive the coveted Sikuvile Journalism Award Trophy as well as R15,000 prize money (to be shared if there is more than one winner in a category). CATEGORY 1:   HARD NEWS NAME                                  TITLE                                                                                                                      COMPANY  Norman Masungwini  “2024 National Elections under threat”   City Press CATEGORY 2: INDIGENOUS LANGUAGE REPORTING IN COMMUNITY MEDIA    “Inkolelo Engaziwa”    “Drugs” “Miss SA 2022 Profile” CATEGORY 3:  COMMUNITY SERVICE REPORTING  Kayleen Morgan   CATEGORY 4:   POPULAR JOURNALISM NO FINALISTS CATEGORY 5:   INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISM  Graeme Hosken Aron Hyman CATEGORY 6:   BUSINESS JOURNALISM  “Gold ‘scam’ robs SA of billions, says SARS”  Philani Nombembe Lwazi Hlangu CATEGORY 7:  FEATURES  Laura Grant Leonie Joubert Alastair Otter Tanya Pampalone Gemma Ritchie Gemma Gatticchi Paul Botes  Nokuthula Manyathi Sharlene Rood Chante Schatz Kayleen Morgan Amy Gibbings Aljoscha Kohlstock CATEGORY 8:   LIFESTYLE    Abigail Javier CATEGORY 9:   COLUMNS/ EDITORIAL  “Adriaan Vlok – the old man and the dark shadow of the past”     CATEGORY 10:   VISUAL JOURNALISM  Sarah Buitendach, Shaun Uthum Vuyo Singiswa   “FM Covers 2022”  Rikus Ferreira  “SA kinders sukkel” “Die soet druppels van oorreding”  Taalgenoot  “How Did We Get Here?” CATEGORY 11:   NEWS PHOTOGRAPHY  Phandulwazi Jikelo  Cape Times CATEGORY 12:  FEATURE PHOTOGRAPHY  Sandile Ndlovu  Sunday Times  CATEGORY 13:   SPORTS PHOTOGRAPHY   Categories 14 Manager/Publisher of the Year Award, 15. Juby Mayet Rising Star of the Year, 16. Journalist of the Year and 17. The Allan Kirkland Soga / Standard Bank Chairman’s Lifetime Achievement Award (previously the Allan Kirkland Soga: Achievement Award) will be announced at the awards event. The jury that judged the entries included: Kim Cloete, Tyrone August, Melanie-Ann Feris, Ryland Fisher Pippa Green, Thabo Leshilo, Mapi Mhlangu, Lesley Mofokeng, Ruth Motau, Neo Ntsoma, Mary Papayya, Gus Silber, Beauregard Tromp, Andile Ntingi, and Portia Kobue.  