Nearly 30 years after its release in 1996, Jerry Maguire is still one of the most quotable movies of all time. Who can forget, ‘Show me the money? But beyond spawning one of the most famous lines in movie history, the movie is also full of lessons on leading with purpose. Gartner research has found that the uncertainty of the last few years has acted as a catalyst to elevate personal purpose and values – with people demanding the same sense of purpose and commitment from the companies they work for. Some are calling it the Great Reflection, and a defining feature of this new trend is that people will leave their jobs if they don’t feel their company is taking concrete action on purpose. The importance of purpose is further backed up by Bain & Company research, which shows that if a satisfied employee’s productivity level is 100%, then an engaged employee’s level is 144% – and an employee that is truly inspired by the purpose of their employer has a productivity level of 225%. Think of the massive potential that purpose has the power to unlock. It is impossible to fully harness this productivity and potential if leaders do not lead by example, however. Business leaders need to take the reins and show that they lead with purpose. It’s not always easy – but Jerry Maguire can help. Jerry shows us that leading with purpose is about making shifts. The ability to lead with purpose while simultaneously inspiring and empowering people can only come from reflecting on and being clear about what their purpose as a leader is. This is often easier said than done: Harvard Business School has found that fewer than 20% of leaders have a strong sense of their own individual purpose. This makes the process of finding and articulating purpose – the “why” – the single most important developmental task leaders can undertake. I’ve found that it’s almost impossible for people to identify their leadership purpose by themselves – trusted colleagues or friends act as mirrors and can help them unlock their why so that they can in turn inspire and uplift the rest of their people and build a team so strong that no one actually knows who the leader is. I believe there are countless lessons we can take from Jerry Maguire on how to lead with purpose – but my favourite ones are: Nontokozo Madonsela is group chief marketing officer at Momentum Metropolitan Holdings  