The Media Online’s weekly column delivering news of award wins, entries, competitions, dates to note and winners in the media. Judges announced for the highly-anticipated DStv Content Creator Awards 2023 The DStv Content Creator Awards, South Africa’s leading platform celebrating the talented individuals, influencers, brands, and agencies that captivate us, is honoured to announce the esteemed panel of judges for this year’s event. Building upon the success of year one, the awards are set to recognise and honour exceptional content creators who have pushed the boundaries of creativity and innovation. The DStv Content Creator Awards have attracted an overwhelming response, with a multitude of captivating entries pouring in from creators across the country. As the entries closed on 19 June 2023, the spotlight now turns to the next milestone in road to the main awards: the selection of nominees in each category by our selected panel of judges. “We have carefully selected our judges for their wealth of experience, deep industry knowledge, and distinct perspectives. They are undertaking the crucial task of adjudicating the submissions. Their discerning judgment will determine the nominees, setting the stage for an exhilarating event,” says Manuela Dias de Deus, CEO of the DStv Content Creator Awards. Be part of the Kfm Best of the Cape Awards and share your favourites Kfm 94.5 has announced the launch of the highly anticipated Kfm Best of the Cape Awards for the third consecutive year. The awards set out to uncover the crème de la crème of the region’s businesses, entrepreneurs, activities, and services, to showcase the absolute pinnacle of what the Cape has to offer. The station’s more than 1.1 million listeners (BRC RAMS) are invited to first nominate and then vote for outstanding businesses across 30 categories. The best sights, tastes, experiences, and simply what they believe to be the best of the best in the Cape! Kfm Mornings Host Darren Simpson says the campaign’s success depends entirely on the station’s listeners. “The true magic of the Kfm Best of the Cape Awards lies in the power of our listeners. It’s their participation and enthusiasm that makes this event so exceptional. The people of the Cape get to choose their favourites based on their personal experiences. Last year’s response was amazing, with an incredible 130,000 votes flooding in. We can’t wait to see the Cape community rally together once more to celebrate and showcase the gems that define this remarkable region,” says Simpson. Kfm 94.5 Station Manager, Hennie Myburgh says the awards have proven to be a game-changer for the region’s local businesses and home-grown entrepreneurs. “These awards offer a golden opportunity for deserving enterprises to receive the recognition needed to thrive. The exposure they receive, both on-air and in terms of digital, propels them into the spotlight. It means they can continue to make a lasting impact and deliver outstanding experiences to their valued customers,” says Myburgh. Simpson says each of the 30 categories celebrates the exceptional individuals and establishments that contribute to the Cape’s allure. To make your voice heard and nominate the business you believe to be the best, visit kfm.co.za and scroll through the categories. Nominations are open and close on Friday, 14 July. The finalists will be announced on Tuesday, 25 July, and voting will open on Wednesday, 26 July for the public to decide who will certifiably be the best of the Cape! With less than one month to go, excitement is mounting for the digital media and marketing industry’s pre-eminent awards, the IAB South Africa Bookmark Awards, in proud partnership with Accenture Song. The awards are further supported by DStv Media Sales, Invibes Advertising, Tractor Outdoor, Nielsen, Google, Everlytic and Mediamark Digital. Bookmarks Awards’ MC announced Now in its 15th year, the 2023 Bookmark Awards will take place at the Vodacom Dome at Vodaworld in Midrand, Johannesburg on Thursday, 27 July  — and is expected to be bigger and bolder than before. It will be hosted by comedian, actor and director Glen Biderman-Pam, best-known for the multi-award-winning My Kreepy Teacher and The Sixty60 Swindler campaigns, as well as stints on Tali’s Diaries and in commercials for Coca-Cola and more, he knows his way around work that drives digital forward. The awards ceremony will be preceded by a Finalists’ Showcase on Wednesday, 26 July at The Tryst. The Finalists’ Showcase will provide an opportunity for insight and engagement with the 2023 Bookmarks’ hopefuls and present an overview of the finalists’ case studies in an intimate auditorium setting. A Bookmarks panel of speakers will furthermore share insights and discuss emerging themes and trends from this year’s entries. Join us for an informal coffee and networking with industry colleagues, with registration starting at 8.30 am. Speakers and more details will be announced on IAB South Africa and Bookmark Awards’ social media channels. Limited spots are available so reserve your seat here today. Beyond celebrating outstanding digital work, the Bookmark Awards continues to provide a platform to stimulate creativity in the sector through interaction and diversity coupled with healthy competition. The Awards serve as a driving force for digital transformation within the digital media and marketing sectors — and is an event not to be missed! Follow the Bookmark Awards on Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter and Instagram. Meet the 2023 Veuve Clicquot Bold Woman Award finalists Veuve Clicquot has selected six entrepreneurial women as finalists for the annual Veuve Clicquot Bold Woman Award in South Africa. For over 50 years, true to the heritage of its trailblazing leader, Madame Clicquot, the Bold programme has highlighted and empowered remarkable women in business. In honour of her audacious spirit, the Veuve Clicquot Bold Woman Award was launched to celebrate daring businesswomen like Madame Clicquot, who, at just 27 years of age, took over the reins of the House. In the year 1805, women were not allowed to work, yet her widow status permitted her to do so. She seized the opportunity and dared to invent new processes such as the riddling table, the first vintage champagne, and the very first blend of rosé champagne. Within a few years Madame Clicquot made her name into a brand of excellence and irrevocably became the “Grande Dame of Champagne’’. To gather insights and provide concrete data on the evolution of female entrepreneurship, the Bold Barometer by Veuve Clicquot provides a unique, multicultural, and intergenerational dataset. Now in its third year, over 49,000 women and men in 25 countries were surveyed. The 2023 South African edition reveals, promisingly, that of the women surveyed, 61% are entrepreneurs, a figure on the rise since 2019. Further, 88% of South African female entrepreneurs believe that role models are a must-have element of entrepreneurial success. This data provides a powerful litmus and is a compelling study that continually drives the Bold programme to support and champion the women who dare to become entrepreneurs. To facilitate the essential connection highlighted by the Bold Barometer, the finalists took part in an immersive adjudication and mentorship process. The esteemed jury panel who had the challenge of engaging with each finalist included: former Bold Woman Award winners Amanda Dambuza (Founder & CEO of Uyandiswa) and Gugu Sithole (Founder of Glamping Adventures); industry leaders Erik Kruger (Founder of Modern Breed and co-host of The Expansive Podcast), Nomndeni Mdakhi (Founder of Agenda Women) and Happy Ralinala (Director of Palesa Mbali Group); as well as brand representatives Carole Bildé (Chief Marketing & Communications Officer, Veuve Clicquot) and Aimee Kellen (Head of Consumer Engagement, Moët Hennessey Africa and Middle East). Effie South Africa sparks dialogue on maximising marketing value through procurement Effie South Africa is bringing together a distinguished panel of senior advertising and marketing leaders to delve into the interplay between marketing effectiveness and the procurement of marketing services. The dialogue aims to explore whether efficiency is working against the growth mindset. The panel, consisting of industry experts, includes: Karabo Songo, ACA Chair and Deputy Chair Effie South Africa, will moderate the panel discussion, posing tough questions on how to best implement procurement practices to drive marketing effectiveness. This interactive dialogue and Q&A session will take place on Thursday, 20th July at GIBS, commencing at 17:30. Limited seats are available, and interested attendees are kindly requested to RSVP directly to lwanda@acasa.co.za. The procurement of valuable marketing services plays a pivotal role in enabling brands to invest confidently while navigating conflicting goals such as cost savings and growth. Efficiency within advertising spend should not diminish brand impact but rather effectively contribute to growth, innovation, and brand awareness objectives. 