A groundbreaking approach to sustainability and community development has earned South African Breweries’ kudos at Cannes Lions. The Castle Lager Bread of the Nation was shortlisted for the 2023 Dan Wieden Titanium Lion Cannes Awards category, the only African initiative that cracked the nod. The campaign centred around the repurposing of brewing by-products into highly nutritious bread. This initiative is born out of South African Breweries’ environmental, social and governance (ESG) programme, which was launched within the business last year. It aims to minimise the impact of the company’s operations on the environment and achieve zero wastage. “We are delighted that we were shortlisted for this prestigious international accolade,” said Vaughan Croeser, vice president Marketing at the South African Breweries. “The Bread of the Nation campaign eloquently gives expression to our environmental, social and governance (ESG) programme, which governs how we are working to fulfil our vision of creating a future with more cheers by integrating sustainability, responsibility and purpose into our business strategy and actions.” The Bread of the Nation initiative produced approximately 30 000 loaves of bread through the use of locally grown grains, making it an economically and socially sustainable venture. The Health Food Company, a bakery contracted by Castle Lager, was responsible for producing the nutritious bread for distribution to the communities in which SAB operates. “Our commitment to improve the communities we are a part of remains unwavering. We are proud to lead the way to that future and to be a next-generation business today. This accolade assures us that we are on the right path and emboldens us to work harder with a renewed determination to create a future with more cheers through greater shared prosperity,” Croeser added. The Titanium Lions celebrate game-changing creativity. Entries shortlisted needed to break new ground in branded communications with provocative, boundary-busting, envy-inspiring work that marks a new direction for the industry and moves it forward. Ogilvy SA, the ad agency behind the campaign, along with the supporting partner agencies such as M-Sports Marketing communications as well as Little Big Productions, were the only African agencies to be named in the Titanium Lions’ shortlist. 