[PRESS OFFICE] In an ever evolving, fast paced, and constantly innovating world, enterprise software solutions must deliver on one essential element. They must always offer a solution to a customer problem or meet a direct need. To achieve this, embracing the cloud is a must. In many environments, however, customers are still uncertain about cloud solutions – hesitant due to known and unknown challenges, confused in terms of cost structures and product options, and desperate for real business use cases that offer context and peace of mind. Migrating to the cloud is not a decision that any business makes lightly. Nor is it one that should be enforced by a hard-and-fast deadline. When customers feel pressure to move to a new platform, they may very well shift away from a provider entirely. What customers need is proof that the move will solve the business’ pain points, and gentle guidance in the process. Ultimatums like “move or be shut out of maintenance” certainly do not offer customers peace of mind. There are many reasons why users may simply not feel ready for the transition to the cloud. Whether this stems from common cloud myths, uncertainty around cost implications of moving to an in-memory database, costly and complicated processes, or doubt about whether current processes will be transferrable to the new platform, the answer is never pressure. Software providers with decades of cloud experience concur that the best route to securing a cloud migration is information and support. Debunking the myths, dispelling the uncertainty, setting  customers’ minds at ease with relevant examples, and providing sound information that displays how the move will benefit the business are essential to migration success. This, along with a reliable track record of product development over time will allay fears and drive action. With an outside-in approach, customers should be reassured that the platform will offer enhanced (and not decreased) functionality and more flexibility than their current solution. With any migration, the plans to move customers off legacy platforms and onto newer, more modern cloud-based systems should be a discussion, not a demand. The migration process could follow any one of multiple paths available, and companies should be given the information needed to find the journey that works best for them. Essentially, this should be a wholly collaborative process focused on driving innovation and adding value, while solving the customer’s business problems. No approach should be one-size-fits-all. Every solution should offer focussed solutions to cover each industry’s (and each business’) unique needs – avoiding the need for compatibility packs that attempt to patch holes and provide only partial capabilities. Paul Bouchier is Sales Director at iOCO, within iOCO Software Distribution, an Infor Gold Partner Issued by Perfect Word Consulting (Pty) Ltd For more information, contact perfectword@trinitas.co.za About iOCO: Established to simplify ICT, iOCO, a proudly EOH company, is Africa’s leading integrated technology services company, with the largest concentration of skills on the continent. As a Level 1 B-BBEE end-to-end ICT managed service provider and cloud systems integrator, iOCO operates with over 20 years’ experience.  Its team of more than 4 500 specialists delivers custom development and integration, open source, enterprise applications, data and analytics, compute and platforms, digital industries and manage and operate solutions to over 1 000 top tier clients. Inspired by digitally native internet organisations (iO) and creative organisations (CO) of the future, iOCO helps customers navigate the path to an exponential future. To achieve this vision, iOCO holds strategic OEM partnership agreements with more than 50 global leaders. For more information, please visit: ioco.tech About Infor: Infor is a global leader in business cloud software specialized by industry. We develop complete solutions for our focus industries. Infor’s mission-critical enterprise applications and services are designed to deliver sustainable operational advantages with security and faster time to value. Over 60,000 organizations in more than 175 countries rely on Infor’s 17,000 employees to help achieve their business goals. As a Koch company, our financial strength, ownership structure, and long-term view empower us to foster enduring, mutually beneficial relationships with our customers. Visit www.infor.com. 